>> Richard Feldman: So
fundamentally, this is how we can,
as Elm programmers,
construct guarantees like this.
So if another module attempts to do this
anyway, and they say, you know what?
I don't care about your alleged guarantee.
I'm going to import this
email thing anyway, and
I'm going to construct an invalid
email just to spite you.
Well, it's just not gonna compile.
Because if the variance is not exposed,
you can't access it from other modules.
So this is how we create what's
known as an Opaque Type.
We define a type,
and it doesn't even have to have any
particular data associated with it.
We could literally say type Email = Email,
the most boring type you can imagine.
But if we're not exposing that variant,
that is an opaque type.
The opacity that it refers to means that
other modules can't look inside of it.
They can see that they have one,
but that's all they can see.
In other words, the implementation details
are hidden within the module where that
custom type is defined.
>> Richard Feldman: Some other
examples of opaque types,
Random.Generator from
the core random library.
Decoder, like JSON decoder is an opaque
type, and HTML is an opaque type.
Now one of the interesting things about
opaque types is that this is not the only
way to get them.
So these things right here, Decoder and
Html, those in particular are built
using kernel code, underlying root
level system stuff inside of Elm.
The virtual DOM is baked into Elm.
Html is an opaque type, but
its internals are not custom type.
It's not just a series of variants.
It's something more complicated than that
that relies on deep internals within Elm.
But the point is that we don't know that,
and we can't know that.
We can't rely on that.
We can't rely on any of the internal
implementation details of Html,
of decoder, of random.generator or
even of this email type because it's
all confined to that one module.
So the key thing here is not so
much that we've used a custom type, but
not exposed the constructor.
But rather that the opacity of the type is
what other modules can do with that type,
once they've got one.
And specifically,
all they can do if it's opaque,
is they can annotate that they've got one.
That's it.
They can hold onto it.
They can't look inside.
They can't make a new one.
Questions about that?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Is there
an example of implementation?
When you say implementation
details are in, for
Html I guess it would be like how
does it turn into Html, right?
>> Richard Feldman: Sure, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, exactly, I mean,
basically you can't know the structure,
might be another way of saying it.
You can just see the outside shape or
you don't know what is
going on under the hood.
Right, you can modify it, so
in an immutable language or
whenever you have immutable values, modify
means look at and create a new one, right?
And you can't do either of those.
[LAUGH] You can observe that you have
one but not what's going on inside it.
This is also relevant for
your ability to evolve your code over
time without causing regressions.
Because if you know that nobody can rely
on your implementation details, if later
on you wanna change those implementation
details to add a performance optimization
or to just refractor your code,
you know that it's safe to do that.
Because nobody else could
possibly be relying on those and
have their code get broken by them.
Even if it still type checks.
Good question, other questions?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So in this specific example,
the implementation detail is
just the ability to construct.
>> Richard Feldman: Right, yeah, so
this is the dumbest possible example
because we actually don't have any.
As it happens, we've hidden
the implementation details, and
the implementation details
are completely boring.
The deep dark secret of this email
type is that it does nothing.
But if we did have other stuff in here,
you still wouldn't be able to tell.
This could be Email string,
it could be Email string int foo bar.
No one knows outside this module.